---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/campaign/setting/threats/lesser-threats/","dg-note-properties":{"aliases":null,"tags":null,"cssclasses":null}}
---



## LESSER THREATS
The following pages focus on system-wide threats, but heroes don’t always need a looming apocalypse to catapult them to greatness. Below is a selection of localized threats, all capable of wreaking havoc if remarkable individuals don’t intervene. 
### Corporate Warfare
On the lawless frontiers of space, it can be tempting to take out your competition permanently. As much as the Stewards work to prevent it in Pact Worlds space, professional rivalry regularly spills over into armed conflict, and most corporations rely heavily on mercenaries and security contractors to supplement their own forces. Recently, reports have surfaced of ATech warships launching a massive assault on an illegal Wallachi-Ulunat colony in the Vast, though no survivors have thus far been located to corroborate the story. 
### Experiments Gone Haywire
The universe is full of strange experiments with even stranger consequences. The entire planet of Lothun, for instance, evinces an old terraforming project run amok, and the world of wild gravity known as Orikolai was purportedly created for astrophysical and ecological studies. Some such experiments have had far worse results, however, bringing mayhem and death to those who investigate them. These failed enterprises may be dark secrets of powerful organizations, or they may float ominously through space in research vessels and star bases, waiting for their paths to intersect an inhabited system. One such example is a cluster of Vercite science vessels long thought lost in the Drift, which have reappeared in the icy wastes beyond Aucturn and that are now pulling other travelers out of the Drift as well, disabling their engines. How and why they’re doing it remains to be discovered, but while the captured vessels have issued a few mysterious distress calls, so far no one has been able to establish contact with the crew—if indeed they’re still alive. 
### Kidnappers 
A rash of high-profile kidnappings has been sweeping the Pact Worlds, targeting everyone from VR stars to corporate executives, and even members of the Pact Council. Strangely, the kidnappers demand to be paid exclusively in rare magical artifacts, and punctuate their ransom notes by removing their victims’ technological implants and sending them to the media. 
### Starfaring Pirates 
Try as some interstellar governmental systems might to police the galaxy, space is still an immense place with many deep corners in which smugglers, thieves, and other ne’er-do-wells can hide. Countless pirates haunt the space lanes, yet in the last few months a new group unaffiliated with the Free Captains has made considerable news in the Pact Worlds. These remarkably efficient android pirates, their faces replaced with eerie red metal plates matching their ship’s hull, target trading vessels and other starships with valuable cargo moving between the Pact Worlds and the Veskarium. Named the Crimson Crew by media outlets, these pirates typically steal easy-to-sell spoils but always interrogate captured crew members to see if they know anything about something called “the Butterfly Matrix.” What this might be, and why the pirates want information on it, remains a mystery, but authorities of both the Pact Worlds and the Veskarium have been quietly looking for ways to bring the pirates to justice. Rumors place the pirates’ headquarters on one of the many settlements in Preluria’s rings but also suggest it’s been cloaked to near invisibility. 
### Warring Planets 
While the Absalom Pact put an end to interplanetary warfare in its planets’ home system, not all inhabited systems are so lucky. Some explorers in the deep reaches of the Vast find themselves suddenly in the middle of massive wars between neighboring planets or solar systems, either conscripted into the fight or beseeched by refugees for aid. Thanks to the powers of the Starstone, refugees fleeing conflicts in other systems also regularly arrive near Absalom Station, despite having no knowledge of the station’s existence. The most recent of these are the Edanra-Mei, a group of incredibly tall, blue-skinned, salamander-like creatures who arrived on three pyramidal ships and refuse to speak to anyone but anacites, androids, and other obviously artificial races. The refugees say their home world is a previously unknown planet called Edanra, which they claim is on the verge of being destroyed by nearby enemies from a place they call the Fortress. They also claim to have incredible technomagic confined within their planet, which they would be willing to share should the Pact Worlds help them defend it. Although the Pact Council has made no official decision as of yet, many corporations and planetary governments have quietly begun contracting adventurers to investigate the situation and the veracity of these newcomers’ claims. 