---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Infosphere/History/PACT WORLDS LORE/THE PACT WORLDS/Daily Life and Culture.md","permalink":"/infosphere/history/pact-worlds-lore/the-pact-worlds/daily-life-and-culture/","dg-note-properties":{"aliases":null,"tags":null,"cssclasses":null}}
---



### Daily Life and Culture 
The Pact Worlds are by their very nature a mishmash of cultures with different values and traditions, making it difficult to identify overarching traits. Still, a few things can be said about the “typical” Pact Worlds resident.  
While a few places within the system—most notably parts of Verces and Aballon—come close to achieving a post-scarcity economy, most Pact Worlders have no choice but to work for a living. Capitalism looms large in both personal and planetary exchanges (kept that way in part by the influence of the church of Abadar), and the rich inevitably dominate the poor, who in turn do their best to become rich. Quality of life for those at the economic bottom varies dramatically—on Absalom Station, the government makes sure no sentient being goes hungry, but harsh worlds like Apostae see no problem with economic bondage that’s slavery in all but name. While Starfinder as a roleplaying game focuses on bold explorers, daring corporate agents, militant law keepers, and more, most people in the setting have more mundane jobs, whether it’s feeding the system via vast hydroponic farms, hauling goods back and forth between worlds, running stores and restaurants, or laboring at a thousand other everyday jobs. For more information on the Pact Worlds economy, see Currency on page 166. Socially, most Pact Worlds residents tend to be live-and-let- live types—anything else is difficult to maintain when your government and even your neighborhood might contain a dozen different races from 50 different cultures. Prejudice tends to be reserved for the most familiar and the most foreign—people police those similar to them and fear the incomprehensibly alien—yet most folks realize that trying to impose their own values on others often ends up driving away valuable opportunities. As the old saying goes, it’s best to let aliens be aliens—and hopefully customers. This means that even individuals who don’t fit well into the cultures in which they’re born can often easily find acceptance by changing location, contributing to the constant churn and migration of people across the system. Yet even within primarily monocultural settlements, simple exposure to the vast array of different races and ways of life just beyond the horizon has tended to make residents less cognizant of minor differences like ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and so on. Who cares about the skin color or marriage arrangements of the neighbors in the apartment beneath you when your upstairs neighbors are giant sentient jellyfish that form new aggregate entities every time you ask them to turn down their cetacean-pop dance mixes? One of the biggest cultural unifiers in the Pact Worlds is religion. Since everyone—well, almost everyone—eventually dies, and worship of a god can help determine the fate of your eternal soul in the Outer Planes, religious choices are practical as well as social signifiers. The Pact Worlds play host to a bevy of different gods, whose congregations mostly live together in harmony—for information on some of the most prevalent ones, see page 482. Arts and entertainment are constantly changing in the Pact Worlds, with fads disappearing as quickly as they arise. At the moment, gritty Akitonian shumka beats and Absalom eyebite rock are becoming popular in many rougher venues, while upscale nightclubs play delicate Vercite ether-ballads or Aballonian-produced euphonics—music designed by advanced computing to directly stimulate aural pleasure centers, creating a perfect listening experience. High fashion remains dominated by the sleek styles coming out of Kalo-Mahoi, the eternal punk look of Absalom Station’s trash-glamorous Spike, and the gothic severity of Apostae. Sports like brutaris, starlance, and ship racing persist in popularity, though most people find their thrills with VR parlor games or holo and stillframe shows. The most popular of these latter are inevitably Eox’s blood-soaked reality broadcasts, constantly decried by censors but never actually crossing the line into illegality. Of late, ordinary books have even seen a surge in popularity, perhaps in part due to legendary lashunta holo star Cashisa Nox declaring a preference for well-read consorts. 