---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Infosphere/History/PACT WORLDS LORE/THE PACT WORLDS/Government.md","permalink":"/infosphere/history/pact-worlds-lore/the-pact-worlds/government/","dg-note-properties":{"aliases":null,"tags":null,"cssclasses":null}}
---



### Government 
The Pact is not a single system-wide government, but rather an association of independent worlds bound by treaty to work together and acknowledge each other’s sovereignty. Though its powers technically extend only to the facilitation of trade between worlds, interplanetary law enforcement, and mutual defense, over the last several centuries the government has gradually broadened the scope of its authority. The Pact—sometimes formally called the Absalom Pact— was first proposed in 41 ag, in response to the increased vesk aggression threatening the whole system. Recognizing that there was no way any individual world could stand against the combined might of the Veskarium, a coalition of officials from Absalom Station, Castrovel, and Verces proposed the new arrangement, based in large part on the system that underpinned Verces’s Ring of Nations as an effective one-world government. To the coalition’s surprise, the first world to sign on to its new plan was not logical Aballon or pacifist Bretheda, but the long-mistrusted undead planet of Eox. With the military might of the bone sages on its side and the churches of Abadar and Iomedae wielding their financial and religious power to promote the campaign, the coalition quickly gained strength, and in just a few years the entire system came under the protection of the new government. As a confederation of independent states, the Pact generally endeavors to afford its component worlds as much autonomy as possible. Aside from enforcing a brief list of universal rights granted to all sentient creatures and a somewhat longer list for Pact Worlds citizens, the government largely leaves judicial and legislative matters to the local governments of individual worlds, as long as they don’t infringe on the authority of other planets. The Pact’s primary enforcers, the Stewards, are as much diplomats as they are police, doing their best to solve issues with  soft power and maintain the system’s fragile balance. The Pact is also very specific about the limits of its authority—in addition to honoring the sovereignty of its constituent governments, the Pact claims no jurisdiction over worlds beyond its solar system unless they are colonies that have requested and won official protectorate status. Government decisions within the Pact are made by the Pact Council, which is housed in the vast senatorial building on Absalom Station called the Plenara. Every Pact World is represented on the council, each with a number of delegates proportional to its sentient population. While many matters are decided by direct vote in the council, deadlocks and issues of particular importance go to the Directorate, a leadership council whose five voting members are elected by and from the wider Pact Council every 2 years. No world can have more than one representative in the Directorate, yet the fact that this places many system-wide decisions in the hands of just five worlds means that the Plenara is a constant hotbed of politicking and alliance building, as individual worlds use their power and influence to ensure their interests are represented by the Directorate. A sixth, nonvoting member of the Directorate, the Director-General of the Stewards, is chosen independently by the Stewards and has no set term limit, serving only to advise the other directors and carry out the council’s decisions. Not every planet in the system is a full member of the Pact. Moons are generally seen as part of their parent planet’s jurisdiction, save for those like Arkanen that have successfully lobbied for independent representation. Some worlds with limited civilization, such as Aucturn, Liavara, and the sun, are categorized as protectorates; while such worlds are not granted full autonomy or voting rights, their representatives are allowed to speak at council meetings. Despite being a collection of many tiny worlds, the Diaspora has banded together as a single voting bloc, and in recent years a single vessel— the kasatha worldship Idari—achieved Pact World status, with many new colonies beyond the solar system hoping to follow suit. While religious and corporate organizations have no direct voice in the council’s decisions, their constant presence via lobbyists and advisors ensures that their interests are represented as well. 