---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Infosphere/History/PACT WORLDS LORE/THE PACT WORLDS/Time.md","permalink":"/infosphere/history/pact-worlds-lore/the-pact-worlds/time/","dg-note-properties":{"aliases":null,"tags":null,"cssclasses":null}}
---



### Time 
In a setting with nearly infinite worlds, each with their own rotation and orbital periods, tracking time can be extremely complicated. Fortunately, one of the Pact Council’s first acts as a government was to institute a universal system of measurements to keep everything running smoothly. When the Starfinder rules—or most people in the Pact Worlds—refer to an hour, day, or year, they’re usually referring to Pact Standard Time. Under this scheme, a day has 24 hours of 60 minutes each. Through an astronomical anomaly, this happens to match the day-night cycle on both Castrovel and Triaxus, as well as the shift schedule on Absalom Station, hence its adoption. The length of the year—365 days, with 52 weeks in a year—is based on the length of Absalom Station’s orbit around the sun. When people want to refer to a particular planet’s rotation or orbit, they generally use terms like “local day” or “local year.” (Conveniently, this also means that all game rules referencing time use Earth-standard measurements.) Modern history records years in ag, which stands for “After Gap,” referring to the number of years since the end of the Gap in the Pact Worlds system, when memory and history once again became reliable. Events that occurred before the oldest edge of the Gap are often referred to as pg (“Pre-Gap”) and measured in how many years before the Gap they occurred, with a date like 300 pg meaning the event occurred 300 years before the onset of the Gap. On some worlds, however, scholars use the preexisting local calendars for events before the Gap. Those researching the cultures from Golarion, for instance, sometimes uncover documents referring to dates in ar or “Absalom Reckoning,” a measurement believed to have been used for nearly 5 millennia, starting with the ascension of a now-dead and mostly forgotten god of humanity named Aroden. Dating anything within the Gap is always a highly dubious proposition, and those who attempt to make claims about such things usually count forward or backward from the nearest edge, such as “roughly 500 years after the onset of the Gap.” 