---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Infosphere/History/PACT WORLDS LORE/BEYOND THE PACT WORLDS/BEYOND THE PACT WORLDS.md","permalink":"/infosphere/history/pact-worlds-lore/beyond-the-pact-worlds/beyond-the-pact-worlds/","dg-note-properties":{"aliases":null,"tags":null,"cssclasses":null}}
---



# BEYOND THE PACT WORLDS
While the Pact Worlds may seem vast and sprawling, they are only a tiny thread in the grand tapestry of the galaxy. The Pact Worlds’ governmental authority generally ends at the heliopause along the solar system’s edge. Beyond, around distant stars and throughout gossamer nebulae, from the mysterious singularity at the galaxy’s center to the far-flung fingers of its spiral arms, float countless other worlds and cultures yet waiting to be discovered. The space beyond the Pact Worlds is often dangerous, unexplored, or both—and the opportunities for adventure are limitless. 

To residents of the Pact Worlds, the planets and systems suddenly made accessible by Drift travel represent a vast and wild frontier. An astonishing bloom of diversity that’s at once biological, ecological, geopolitical, and historical, the worlds run the gamut from warlike empires to ruined wastelands and planets exploited by the strange creatures of the Outer Planes. Although alliances and conquest may give rise to interstellar entities such as the Azlanti Star Empire and the Veskarium, such hegemonies still remain fairly rare and localized in the grand scheme of things. Most planetary civilizations run according to their own tenets and may have limited trade with (or even knowledge of) other worlds. The reasons for this isolation vary—some planets never deciphered or capitalized on the gift of Drift travel, while others have yet to achieve spaceflight or are too standoffish or war torn to make contact with their interstellar neighbors. Many planets are devoid of intelligent life or civilization, yet nearly every world has something to offer, from naturally occurring minerals to strange plant and animal life to the relics of ancient and mysterious cultures lost to history. This opportunity appeals to colonists, corporations, exiles, and scholars, but most of all to adventurers. Those brave enough to leave the Pact Worlds often find that the most exciting and fulfilling times of their lives are waiting for them in this mysterious beyond—if they survive. Like the Pact Worlds entries, this chapter notes each world’s diameter, mass, and gravity, as well as the lengths of its day and year, all in relation to lost Golarion and Pact Standard measurements. (Where the entries refer to multiplanet systems, such as the Azlanti Star Empire, the statistics given reflect the system’s most important world.) The entries also indicate how long it takes to travel to the world via the Drift by stating whether the world is considered part of Near Space or the Vast (for an explanation of these concepts, see page 291). Lastly, each entry includes a description of the world’s atmosphere, using the terms defined starting on page 395. All of the worlds listed here have already been discovered or contacted by explorers from the Pact Worlds, but this list is only a sampling; the galaxy contains more than a hundred billion stars, and many of these nurture planets. Many more worlds than those listed here have made contact with the Pact Worlds (and one another) in the centuries since the Gap, yet an untold number still await initial contact by explorers. For the Pact Worlds, the era of interstellar travel is just beginning, creating a new age of exploration for those bold or desperate enough to heed the call. 

[[Campaign/Setting/PACT WORLDS LORE/BEYOND THE PACT WORLDS/OTHER WORLDS/OTHER WORLDS\|OTHER WORLDS]]

[[Campaign/Setting/PACT WORLDS LORE/BEYOND THE PACT WORLDS/THE GREAT BEYOND/THE GREAT BEYOND\|THE GREAT BEYOND]]